Document allowed gaps (#4247)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/user_manual/working_with_vector/vector_properties.rst

   * - The |checkbox| :guilabel:`Missing vertex` check will
       check for shared boundaries of neighbouring polygons
       where one border misses a vertex which is present on
       the other one.
     - .. image:: img/missingvertexcheck.png

Gap check exceptions
....................

> Sometimes it is desirable to keep gaps inside an area that otherwise is fully covered by polygons. For example, a land use layer may have acceptable holes for lakes.

Author: I'd like to have someone else read the two versions and decide which one to take. @DelazJ ?

> Sometimes it is desirable to keep gaps inside an area that otherwise is fully covered by polygons. For example, a land use layer may have acceptable holes for lakes.

Reviewer: @m-kuhn Sorry. I'm a bit busy away from QGIS these days.

> It is possible to define areas, which are ignored in the gap check. Since inside these areas gaps are allowed, we will further refer to them as *Allowed Gaps Areas*.

Reviewer: FWIW, the "Allowed gaps **areas**" expression is never used later. 🤔

In the options for the gap checks under :guilabel:`Allowed Gaps`, an *Allowed Gaps layer*
can be configured.

Whenever the gap check is executed, gaps which are covered by the *Allowed Gaps Layer* are not reported as topology errors.

It is also possible to configure an additional :guilabel:`Buffer`. This buffer is applied to each polygon on the *Allowed Gaps Layer*. This makes it possible to make the tests less susceptible to small changes on outlines at the borders of gaps.

> When *Allowed Gaps* are enabled, an additional fix :guilabel:`Add Allowed Gap` for

Reviewer 2: What does "fix" mean here? Is it an option that can be checked?
I have not been able to bring up the geometry validation dock, so I can't check it.

Author: It's a push button

Reviewer 2: OK. I have a suggestion...

detected gap errors is available in the geometry validation dock, where gaps are reported during digitizing.

> If the :guilabel:`Add Allowed Gap` fix is activated a new polygon with the geometry of the detected gap is inserted

Author: I think given the fact that it's a push button, this might be written differently?

> If the :guilabel:`Add Allowed Gap` fix is activated a new polygon with the geometry of the detected gap is inserted

Reviewer 2: I have tried to reformulate.

   * - The |checkbox| :guilabel:`Missing vertex` check will
       check for shared boundaries of neighbouring polygons
       where one border misses a vertex which is present on
       the other one.
     - .. image:: img/missingvertexcheck.png

Gap check exceptions
....................

It is possible to define areas, which are ignored in the gap check. For example,
a land use layer may have acceptable holes for lakes.

In the options for the gap checks under Allowed Gaps, an *allowed gaps layer*

> can be defined. On this additional layer, acceptable gaps are managed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be defined. This additional layer defines the acceptable gaps.
```

Reviewer 2: I hope this is still a correct description.

Author: Could you add some reasoning to your suggestion?
It would allow me to learn why it's preferable this way.

Reviewer 2: I did not understand why "managed" was used. So I was hoping that my suggestion would be less complicated to understand.  But I am not familiar with this functionality, so I may have misunderstood the role of the *allowed gaps layer*.

Author: In my understanding, *managed* covers also the meaning of "keep up to date" whereas *defines* sounds more like "static data".

Reviewer 2: That the layer "defines" the acceptable gaps does not exclude that fact that the layer can be modified / managed, so I think "defines" covers what is needed.  But this is not important, so if you don't agree, that is no problem.

> --image:: img/acceptable_gaps.png

Author: Or have a generic picture at the beginning with the box collapsed and an uncollapsed box with all the config options here?
I think it would be nicer to not have too much options visible in the generic description, this is really advanced functionality.
On the other hand, I would understand if you say that you are worried about too many screenshots to keep updated...

> --image:: img/acceptable_gaps.png

Reviewer: >  On the other hand, I would understand if you say that you are worried about too many screenshots to keep updated...

:+1: 
Yes, these are advanced options, but these are few options and I'm not sure they are worth a separate screenshot. We have more "crowded" GUI in the docs.

Whenever the gap check is executed, any gap which is covered by a polygon
from the *allowed gaps layer* is ignored.

If a buffer size is specified, the polygons will be buffered with an
additional size in map units. This allows for the check to be more robust
for small changes in the borders of allowed gaps.

> When *allowed gaps* are enabled, an additional fix *Add Allowed Gap" for

Reviewer 2: `Add Allowed Gap` is preceded by an asteriks (*) and followed by a double quote (").
This is an error.  I think it is best that you suggest a solution yourself @m-kuhn.

Author: ```suggestion
When *allowed gaps* are enabled, an additional fix *Add Allowed Gap* for
```

> detected gap errors is available. If this fix is applied for a gap, a new

Author: I'll be more precise regarding 2.
What exactly is the question/proposal regarding 1?

> detected gap errors is available. If this fix is applied for a gap, a new

Reviewer: >  What exactly is the question/proposal regarding 1?

Checking that I understand what the feature is? As said earlier, this is an advanced setting (i never used/tested) and to be honest i had to read it multiple times the last day to be sure I get the schema.

   * - The |checkbox| :guilabel:`Missing vertex` check will
       check for shared boundaries of neighbouring polygons
       where one border misses a vertex which is present on
       the other one.
     - .. image:: img/missingvertexcheck.png

Gap check exceptions
....................

Sometimes it is desirable to keep gaps inside an area that otherwise is fully covered by polygons. For example, a land use layer may have acceptable holes for lakes.
It is possible to define areas that are ignored in the gap check. Since gaps inside
these areas are allowed, we will refer to them as *Allowed Gaps Areas*.

In the options for the gap checks under :guilabel:`Allowed Gaps`, an *Allowed Gaps layer*
can be configured.

Whenever the gap check is executed, gaps which are covered by one or more polygons
in the *Allowed Gaps Layer* are not reported as topology errors.

It is also possible to configure an additional :guilabel:`Buffer`.
This buffer is applied to each polygon on the *Allowed Gaps Layer*.
This makes it possible to make the tests less susceptible to small changes in the
outlines at the borders of gaps.

> When *Allowed Gaps* are enabled, an additional fix :guilabel:`Add Allowed Gap` for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When *Allowed Gaps* are enabled, an additional button (:guilabel:`Add Allowed Gap`) for
```
